just to recap what i'm hearing or what
i'm taking from this
is that the let's say semi-abrasive
persona that you reflect online some of
the time
is partially by design it's 100 by
design go on yeah yeah
i've addressed that several times with
the word theatricality even in the title
of the video i have talked about that
um and like in a sense i'm almost
flattered
like if you think the reason why that
video about jacqueline glenn
is so hard-hitting is that i lack
self-control
and that's who i really am that really
tells you how great an actor i am
right like if that's how you read that
video as opposed to you watch that video
and you go
this is a kid who grew up doing classes
in the theater this is a kid who won an
award for playwriting when he was 15 or
something
you know this is a kid who came out of
the theater and who knows how to take a
complex idea
in politics or philosophy and then put
together an on-camera performance that
dramatizes it
with no special effects no costume no
script
not much in the way of lighting or
makeup you know and makes something
dramatic and impactful out of it because
that's what it is
it is theatrical in the in the truest
sense of the word if you were to ask the
question how did this start how did i
start having this design
uh you know for what i do on youtube it
is in large part
a reaction against the university
professors i've known i knew
all these people who took
the measure of intellect and imagination
they had in life and went into a library
and they lost their soul
you know when they came out of the
library it wasn't a man anymore
it was a bureaucrat and it's this
rejection
of the real world reality of academia
of who those professors were of the men
they became reacting against all that
um i came out of the gate on youtube yes
with with this design as you put it that
this
is how i'm gonna broach these issues so
that's why i come on the mic in the way
that i do
and i say hey you know you might think
this controversy about an issue is
meaningless
but it's not it's really meaningful to
me and here's why
and you know some of my videos on an
issue and i do think are really profound
philosophically some of them i think are
interesting politically and and what
i've i actually
i actually think i have something
meaningful to say about abundancion and
sure
about aristotle communism veganism
about a million other topics sometimes
more self-evidently profound
[Music]
my
what you're positing fundamentally would
be that having a kind of
emotionally neutral delivery would be
advantageous
in all situations or maybe just most
situations
and uh you know i think that has very
real disadvantages also i
understand your concern i understand
your concern but i mean i think another
another kind of criterion to bring to
this
would be to ask so this isn't the
question you're asking this would be a
stronger question to demand to me
you could ask isil your theatrical
behavior
do you think it makes you more friends
or makes you more enemies or like is
this a
good way to make friends so i just say
that would be your same kind of
objection
but more forcefully stated and my answer
to that is
you know by being really honest with
people i make the right friends
because if i came on if i were phony or
i really pretended to be someone i'm not
then the people who might want to be
friends with me they wouldn't be the
right people
so people get to see hey i'm really
passionate about this issue
i'm really indifferent to this other
issue i'm pissed off with this or that
and then you know the right people will
respond to that in the right way and
you know i i really accept that you know
i can't be friends with everyone
and that you know i'm going to alienate
some people that way it's true
but like to give a very real example i
would have more friends
if i pretended to be a socialist or even
if i pretended to be a communist
sympathizer or communist supporter
i really would and you can look at
veganism is very left-wing
you know within my lifetime it would
have been a as a winning strategy
i could have been a phony far leftist of
one kind or another whether i was an sjw
or a socialist
or whatever even now there's pressure on
me to just be an uncritical supporter
of bernie sanders and i'm not i don't
really
see how it can be coherent even like on
a psychological level
for me to dissimulate being someone
other than i am and feeling something
other than i am for the value of an
abstract friendship
that i don't i wouldn't value myself the
right people
people who look at that performance and
can see my feeling and see what i feel
what i feel as well as what i think the
right people will become my friends
and by being phony or being insincere i
don't think
i don't think that would lead to those
positive outcomes as i say
it's true if you took a more insincere
approach
you'd make more friends but they would
be the wrong friends
i suspect that if somehow it was the
exact same information
but just tweaked and this maybe doesn't
matter we're just tweaked in a way where
they don't get that vibe
maybe that would be not a video of yours
but
maybe there would be more people because
it just is there are people responding
to your video game criticism
yes yes so we covered that last time in
the edited version i had screenshots of
people writing into me saying how this
changed their lives
yes and i think one of the most telling
examples of how this more
raw authentic confrontational style of
how effective it is is the people
who saw a video like that once thought
this can't be true i can't believe it
this is wrong kind of slunk away for a
few months and then came back a few
months later and said wow you're right
you know i've changed my whole life it
opened my eyes but where they didn't
accept it right away
and by the way another great example of
that was uh communism
i have a video forgetting the title
right now but it's it's something like
can you deprogram a brainwashed
communist
and i'm doing this dialogue i'm talking
directly to someone who is basically a
brainwashed commerce i
later learned more about her life
because she talked to me more and
during that dialogue during that
discussion she's a hundred percent
pro-communist
100 brainwashed not willing to take on
any of the
arguments i presented this very
confrontational just like you're
describing
the same way i'm confrontational about
video games saying look this is good
this is evil let's face up to it
so i'm really giving it to her raw and
during that conversation it doesn't get
to her later
she heard the video back a few months go
by
she watched my other videos about the
history of communism and marxism
she starts doing some reading she starts
going back like i think she took books
off her shelf that she read years ago
and it's like reconsidering
how did she you know how did she kind of
brainwash herself into this step by step
she's looking back
and she got in touch with me a couple
months later she had completely lost
faith in communism
and it basically become a mainstream
democratic person so yes it works
yes it works and you know i've been
confronting people
across a huge range of ideologies you
know not just christianity buddhism
communism uh meat-eating but i mean also
neo-nazis
right-wingers and racists i've taken on
those issues
i've taken on black lives matter but
have taken on a huge
range of things and yes it gets results
and yes i get
emails letting me know that it works and
here's the other thing
i mean it's totally reasonable that you
ask the question of would you reach more
people
what what kind of person do you want to
reach right
i've never been catering to the
stupidest 80
of the audience i think it's debatable
whether or not
i'm even catering to the stupidest 90
of the audience i am only and
exclusively
catering to the people who have the most
initiative
the most intelligence the most ambition
the most imagination like i'm really
looking for the best of the best
and those are people who are capable of
hearing that argument whether it's about
video games or communism whatever
and maybe not in that moment thinking
about it
you know um all these debates where i've
gotten
so much pushback so much hatred and
response
where i stood up and said hey look if
you're an atheist stop celebrating
christmas
you have no idea how many atheists made
hate videos against me like
how dare you say that i'm an atheist but
i still celebrate christmas and i still
go to church and i still
like you know people come back to you in
the stupid way but
those are the stupidest people right
that's that's the eighty percent or
whatever it is
of idiots and now the people who get in
touch with you and say wow you know what
man
that video you made about the notre dame
cathedral in paris
i really had to think about it for a
while at first i was defensive
and now i realize you're really making
an important point you really open my
eyes like
even my experience than veganism was
like that sorry great example real quick
my critique of gary yourofsky that was
really hated
people were shocked i said gary
yourofsky is pro-violence and
pro-terrorism
and i'm anti-violence and anti-terrorism
here are the facts
right and i really laid it down yes i
got emails saying how dare you
you know why don't you just do the same
kind of namby pamby
content all the other vegans do on
youtube let's just use navy bambi for
the sake of simplicity why don't you
just cheerlead
what but yes i also got those emails
from people saying wow this was
invaluable
some people said it opened their eyes to
something they didn't know about
other people said you know what after
watching your video a couple times over
a couple months
i had to admit to myself this was
something i did know about and i was
choosing to ignore it
they're like they were people writing me
saying they've been to those vegan
meetings
that were endorsing violence and
terrorism and they were lying to
themselves about it
you know they were telling themselves
okay then they see this video that
really confronts them and says no
this is terrorism like face up like
think about what you're making
you're saying it's non-violence but it's
not you know so no um
you know if you say you're gonna
alienate
part of the audience by confronting the
other part it's completely true
it's completely reasonable criticism
what percentage of chinese people
are willing to listen to a critique of
the communist government of china
what percentage of americans are willing
to listen to me really say that i think
the american constitution is so awful
that it should be completely torn up and
rewritten that america should have a new
constitution
like my position as a dissident
necessarily alienates me from a mass
audience
but i can still have a really meaningful
relationship
with a minority of the audience and you
know
one percent of the population of the
united states of america would still be
an enormous audience
just to recap what i'm hearing or what
i'm taking from this is that
the let's say semi-abrasive
persona that you reflect online some of
the time
is partially by design that fits into
your
your it's 100 by design go on yeah yeah
yeah
well i say partially because it seems
like part of it is just you it's not
like something you need to design it's
just who you are and then
there's an element of kind of channeling
that in a particular way i gotta i gotta
answer that this is a great statement
we're gonna answer it as if it's a
question
um i'm also someone who went and
researched buddhism and did humanitarian
work in
southeast asia right so it's 100 by
design it's not
if you were to ask the question how did
this start how did i start having this
design
uh you know for what i do on youtube it
is in large part a reaction against the
university professors i've known
i've known so many people with phds
and they wrote books that like 10 people
read i used to work in the
non-fiction publishing industry also
where we took the books and essays
written by those people with phds and
published them with books and you see
the numbers
you see how many copies a year sell and
it's shockingly close to zero
i knew all these people who
took the measure of intellect
and imagination they had in life
and went into a library and they lost
their soul
you know when they came out of the
library it wasn't a man anymore
it was a bureaucrat i know those are the
professors i've known
in many many many different fields
within buddhist philosophy and buddhist
scholarship
i knew these guys they'd never even been
asia
you know they're talking about cambodia
they've never seen the poverty in
cambodia they never saw the war they
never
and they lived through the war i mean
these guys older than me you know like
you know
um you didn't go you didn't meet the you
didn't do humanitarian work you also
just didn't
witness it or interview those people you
know and it doesn't have to be cambodia
it could be
tibet it could be india it could be all
these other things you know
you say you're an historian but the
history in your own life has unfolded
and passed you by and you didn't make a
difference
and the saddest part of all is they pour
years of their life into writing these
essays and publishing these books
that nobody cares about they don't make
any difference in the world
so you know it's a hundred percent by
design
it's taking the background i already had
in the theater
starting in high school and in some ways
i was raised in a theatrical family
someplace i grew up with the theater no
the credits to get to
but yeah i had a background in the
theater had a background in performing
arts including playwriting i'm an
award-winning playwright player or not
you know it took my experience with
going to city hall
with being involved in politics in real
life face-to-face the theatricality of
that
the background had an ancient greek
philosophy all this stuff and it's this
rejection
of the real world reality of academia
of who those professors were of the men
they became
and how fruitless their efforts were
that their struggles were for another
even if they really did have expertise
like even if they knew something
meaningful
from their their years of research that
it goes nowhere doesn't matter
so you know reacting against all that um
i came out of the gate on youtube yes
with with this design
as you put it that this is how i'm gonna
broach these issues
so that's why i come on the mic in the
way that i do and i say hey
you know you might think this
controversy about an issue is
meaningless
but it's not it's really meaningful to
me and here's why
and you know some of my videos on an
issue and i do think are really profound
philosophically some of them i think are
addressing politically and and what i've
i actually
i actually think i have something
meaningful to say abundian and sure
about aristotle communism veganism
about a million other topics uh
sometimes more self-evidently
have you ever experienced that like by
being calm and relaxed and not
using theatricality to prove your point
that you will have nothing to lose so
why do you need to use
theatricality okay so
i think there is something to lose i
think there is a real disadvantage to
not
being theatrical and you see that in
democracy
in ancient times and still today so
you know in american government in the
american system of congress in the
senate
when people were arguing against
cigarettes that cigarettes caused cancer
they brought in heartbreaking examples
of people whose lives
have been destroyed by cigarettes and
they stood there in front of congress
and they broke down weeping
this is a significant form of
theatricality
seat belts trying to get laws about seat
belts
uh even the debates legally about the
side effects
of certain medicines that bring in
people whose lives have been destroyed
or father whose daughter was killed
and they give really passionate voice to
that another infamous example by the way
in putting together
the case for the iraq war they brought
in someone who had allegedly you know
was talking about suffering in the iraq
war and it was later revealed that
this was to some extent a phony or
misleading instance
there just within modern american
politics the vietnam war
iraq war and so on the theatricality is
a really significant
part of democracy now could i come on
youtube
and talk about vegan activism in a
completely dispassionate or even robotic
way
i could it's a choice not to could i
talk about
my own divorce or my own personal life
in a dispatcher but i could
it's a choice not to so you know i'm
just saying i'm someone who's
consciously aware of that and there's a
certain level of theatricality in my in
my youtube videos
and there is in real life also i would i
would say
as a very real example that many people
in here will have experienced
what if you are begging with a police
officer or a border guard someone who
has real direct power over your power of
life and death and power to [ __ ] up your
life
what if you have to convince someone in
that position to do the right thing or
the truth
being robotic or dispassionate or
something or not
expressing your case emotionally is not
is not in your favor
so i think theatricality is is an
important part of public life
uh including youtube and including you
know formal democracy and
informal situations worldwide sure the
other consideration is the audience
what the performance means for the
audience
i i don't think living i'm gonna just
one more sentence
i don't think living a lie is good for
me i don't think it's good
for him and i don't think it's good for
the audience either i don't i think that
authenticity
and really sharing how you feel about
things i think is good for me is good
for him and is good for the audience
that's how i honestly feel that